Queen Rania of Jordan has been named the most famous Arab video blogger on
YouTube by _[Blogger Times](http://bloggers-times.blogspot.com/2008/07/blog-
post_30.html)_ , a blogging magazine run by Arab bloggers, following the
[success](https://globalvoicesonline.org/2008/04/01/jordan-royal-debut-on-
youtube/) of a series of YouTube videos she launched to shake off stereotypes
against Arabs.

According to the article:

تجلس الملكة رانيا العبد الله داخل مكتبها الفسيح في عمان بالأردن بينما تركز
عليها ثلاث كاميرات.  
الكاميرتان الأولى والثانية هما للبي بي سي في حين أن الكاميرا الثالثة هي لأعضاء
مكتبها، والكاميرات الثلاث تصور أحدث حلقة من برنامجها الذي يُبث في قناتها
الخاصة المسماة V-log على موقع يوتوب الخاص بمقاطع الفيديو.  
وهذه هي الحلقة السابعة أو الفيديو السابع منذ أن بدأت الملكة رانيا بث أحاديثها
على موقع يوتوب في شهر مارس/آذار الماضي.  
وتلقي الملكة رانيا أحاديثها باللغة الإنجليزية، إذ تطلب من المشاهدين أن يخبروها
ببعض الصور النمطية التي سمعوها عن العالم العربي حتى يتسنى لها “تفكيكها واحدة
تلو الأخرى”.  
قد لا تكون عقيلة العاهل الأردني عبد الله الثاني، الشخصية العامة الوحيدة التي
تستخدم موقع يوتوب الذي يقبل على مشاهدته ملايين المشاهدين؛ فهناك سياسيون وملوك
في مناطق مختلفة من العالم قد أنشأوا مواقع لهم على شبكة الإنترنت.  
لكن ما تتفرد به الملكة رانيا عن الباقي هو أنها الشخصية العربية الوحيدة التي
تستخدم الإنترت للانخراط في حوار مع الغرب والترويج للخطاب الإسلامي المعتدل.  
تقول الملكة رانيا مازحة “ابني المراهق شخص قليل الكلام لكن انطباعه (بشأن
الأحاديث) كان “جيدا”، وبالتالي فإن انطباع المشاهدين لا بد أن يكون جيدا”.  
ويبدو أن زوار موقع يوتوب يتفقون معه فيما ذهب إليه إذ أن ما يربو على مليوني
مشاهد شاهدوا حلقات الفيديو التي بثتها على موقع يوتوب.  
وتضم هذه الحلقات تسجيلات لها إضافة إلى مساهمات من موسيقيين وكوميدييين مختلفين
ومواطنين أردنيين.

Queen Rania Al Abdullah sits inside large office in Amman, Jordon, with three
cameras focused on her. The first and second cameras were for BBC, while the
third camera was for her office staff. The three cameras were recording the
latest episode of her program that is broadcasted on a special channel on
YouTube, better known as a Vlog. This is her 7th episode/video since she began
broadcasting on Youtube, last March, where she speaks in English asking
viewers to discuss the stereotypes they have heard about the Arab world, so
she can “debunk them one after the other.”  
Perhaps the wife of Jordan's King Abdullah the Second, is not the only public
figure who uses YouTube, that’s being watched by millions of people. There are
other politicians and kings in different regions of the world who have created
personal websites on the internet.  
But what is unique about Queen Rania is that she is the only Arab figure who
uses the internet to engage in a dialogue with the West to promote a moderate
Islamic speech.  
Queen Rania says jokingly: “My adolescent son is a quiet person who doesn’t
speak a lot by nature, but his impression towards the speeches I gave was
‘good’, and thus the viewers’ impression should be good as well.”  
It seems that YouTube visitors agreed with him on what he said, as around 2
million viewers watched the video episodes broadcasted on YouTube; which
include along with her recording, contributions from different Jordanian
musicians, comedians and citizens.

The article continues:

وأتاح ظهور الملكة رانيا على الشبكة العنكبوتية لها إمكانية تلقي انتقادات
الملايين من الناس.  
وأسرت الملكة لي قائلة ” عندما قلبت في ذهني فكرة بث تسجيلات لي على موقع يوتوب،
نظر إلي بعض الناس وكأنني فقدت صوابي تماما”.  
وتابعت قائلة “أشعر أن عالمنا يعيش أزمة في الوقت الراهن؛ فالعنف حل محل الحوار
والغضب حل محل العطف”.  
ومضت قائلة “آمل أن تصبح هذه القناة قناة اتصال وتواصل بين الشرق والغرب لأنني
أعتقد جازمة أن عالمنا في أمس الحاجة إلى ذلك”.

Queen’s Rania appearing on her channel on the internet, gave her the chance to
receive criticism from millions of people. As she has said to me: “When the
idea came to my head, some people looked at me as if I have totally lost my
mind.” She continued: “I feel that our world is in a crisis at the present
time, violence has replaced dialogue and anger replaced compassion.”  
“I hope that this channel becomes a channel for communication and a bridge
between the East and West, because I firmly believe our world is in dire need
for this”.

You can also follow Queen Rania on [her
channel](http://www.youtube.com/queenrania).

