Internet portal sites in Korea will use the real-name comment system (daet-
geul sil-myeong-je) from this month. Two major portal sites, Daum and Naver,
already started from the 27th of June, and 35 other major portal sites will
implement the system this month.

In Korean portal sites, internet news or blog news have ‘comments or responses
section’ under the posts and they are called daet-geul (they usually have
short contents and netizens write their opinions casually). Because it is
possible to write it anonymously, some contents are not appropriate, or posted
not in earnest, or represent personal attacks. What to do about this situation
has been a topic of debate.

Several days have passed. Bloggers share their opinions of this new system.

Some bloggers, like [minicactus](http://may.minicactus.com/103847), have
worried about side-effects.

> 분명 댓글 실명제를 시행한 다음에 악성 댓글의 수위가 낮아지긴 했지만, 그 수에서는 예전과 별로 다르지 않아 보인다.결국 악성 댓글이
> 사라지는 데는 오랜 시간이 걸릴 것이고, 현재까지는 댓글 실명제가 별로 효과가 없어보인다.더 걱정되는 문제는 네이버와 다음에서 악성
> 댓글을 달던 사람들이 시간이 지나면서 점차 작은 커뮤니티 사이트로 분산되어 인터넷 전체의 분위기가 흐려지는 것이 아닐까 하는 염려다.

Since the real-name comment system, the level of malignant contents has been
lower, but the number has not been dramatically decreasing. It will take time
for the bad comments to disappear from the internet. Until now, it seems that
it is not so effective. What I’m worried more is that these respondents with
bad habits will be dispersed to small community sites and, therefore, the
holistic atmosphere of the internet would be generally bad.

Whether this system would control the freedom of expression is the major
concern of some bloggers, like [hansfamily](http://www.hansfamily.kr/219).

> …이 제도 시행에 상당부분 반대를 하는 기류가 많은 것 같다.반대하는 주요 이유로 첫째, 인터넷 정신과 자율성에 훼손을 입힌다는 것,
> 둘째, 자유로운 언로의 통로가 막힐 것이라는 것, 그리고 기본적으로 권력에 의한 통제가 가능해질 것이라는 것 등이 주로 언급되고 있다.  
>  물론 상당부분 일리있는 주장이며 기본적인 원칙에 대해서는 나도 부정할 생각은 없다.그러나 익명성 뒤에 숨어 남을 비방하고 욕을 하며
> 옳지않은 방향의 소문과 있지도 않은 사실의 유포가 확대되는 이 독버섯같은 사회현상을 어떻게 극복할 수 있을까? 그건 이런 법과 같은
> 강제성이 아닌 사용자(네티즌) 스스로의 자율 정화에 의해 극복되어야 한다고들 이야기 한다. 너무나 이상적인 희망사항 아닌가?  
>  진짜 아무생각없는 댓글과 비방글로 인해 자살과 자괴감에 빠져 인생을 마감하는 경우를 우리는 종종 보아왔으며 그때마다 사회적 분위기로
> 각성을 촉구하곤 했다. 그러나 어떤가? 바뀌어가고 있는가? 오히려 더 심각해지고 있지는 않은가?

… it seems that not a few people tend to oppose this system. There are several
reasons. The first is that it could damage the basic principle and freedom of
the internet, the second is it could interrupt freedom of speech, and the last
is the possibility it could be controlled by the authorities.  
All these arguments are reasonable and I don’t deny the basic principle
either. But how can we overcome this social phenomenon like poisonous
mushrooms whereby fake stories are believed like true stories and people blame
others? Some people say that it should be overcome by netizens’ wills, not by
force. But isn’t that way too idealistic?  
We have seen several incidents where some people commit suicide or are
depressed due to these nasty comments, and this issue has been a great eye-
opener for society. But what has happened so far? Has something changed? Isn’t
it getting more serious?

> 몇년 전부터 지속적으로 인터넷 실명제에 대하여 토론을 벌이며 찬반에 대해 논의해 왔다. 당시에는 사회적 여론 대부분이 실명제에 대해 강력
> 반대 입장이었다. 그런데 요즘 들어 보니 그 사회적 여론도 일부 바뀌어가고 있다. 절대적인 반대 보다는 부분적 도입을 통해 익명성에 의한
> 악영향을 막아보자는 방향으로 말이다.  
>  한 가지 궁금한 것은 주민등록번호를 확인한다고 하는데, 외국인이나 주민번호가 없는 해외 동포의 경우에는 아예 언로가 막혀버리는 것인지…

There have been arguments about whether we have to accept this ‘internet real
name comment system’ for several years. At that time, the major opinion was
against it. But it has been changing. Rather than absolute objections, the
partial application is considered in order to interrupt the bad influence of
anonymity.  
One thing I am curious about is whether, like I heard, they will check ID
numbers. How about foreigners or overseas Koreans who don’t have ID numbers?

A [blogger ](http://uniquesp.tistory.com/3)brought up issues of a much bigger
scope: bad comments and our education.

> 악플이 넷상의 주요 이슈를 넘어 사회문제가 된 지도 참 오래다. 나 역시 언젠가 부터 뉴스 댓글에 달리는 악플을 보지 않는다.지독한
> 악취가 나는 쓰레기 장 주변에 얼씬 거리지 않는 건 누구나 다 마찬가지가 아니겠는가? 인터넷 초기 댓글은 참 신선하고 재밌는
> 기능이었다.게시글에 대해 내 의견을 표현하고 싶을 때 따로 창을 열어 작성하고 봐야하는 답글에 비해 원문을 보면서 바로 아래 즉각적으로
> 달린 댓글은 참 편리했다. 굳이 긴 글을 달지 않아도 되기 때문에, 별 고민 없이 쉽게 달 수도 있고 , 종종 짧은 댓글 속에서 센스있는
> 표현들이 오고가면서 댓글 문화라는 것도 웹을 이야기 할 때 빼 놓을 수 없는 요소가 되었다. 비약일지도 모르겠지만,서비스 사용자와 사용자
> 간, 때로는 서비스 공급자와 사용자간에 활발하고 즉각적인 커뮤니케이션이 살아나면서 우리나라 인터넷 문화도 더욱 발전했고, 그에 따라
> 사용자들의 욕구와 니즈가 반영된 서비스들이 이만큼 발전해 올 수 있지 않았을까 싶다..

From sometime, I have tended not to read the comments and responses of posts.
Wouldn’t everyone avoid stinky trash bins? In the early times, these comments
and responses were a really fresh and fun function. This function was really
convenient because we can express opinions on reading the post right away. It
is much better than the reply system in which we have to open another window
to write down our opinions. Because we don’t have to write down a long
opinion, we write down what we feel without any serious thought. Writing is
short, but there are numerous fresh expressions. I might jump to a conclusion
way too fast, but instant and fast communication between service customers,
and service suppliers and customers has brought faster development of internet
culture in Korea. Therefore, customers’ desire and NIES have been developed
fast.

> 뭐든 지나치면 꼭 부작용이 나타나는 건가..이제 댓글은 예전의 댓글이 아니다.  
>  악플러의 비율이 전체 이용자의 극히 일부인 0.06% 라고는 하지만, 소수의 악플러에 의한 문제들이 사회현상으로 발현되고 있다면, 분명
> 해결해야 한다. 그렇다면, 실명제가 정답일까.. 실명제의 실시로 인해 제한받게 되고, 억압받을 우려가 있는 개인의 표현의 자유는
> 어떤식으로 보상받고 최소화 할 수 있을까..

However, anything should not be too much. Comments and responses have changed.
Even though 0.06 percent is the only malignant respondents, this small number
causes problems and appears as a social issue, and, therefore, we should solve
this problem. Then, is the ‘real name system’ the right answer? Due to this,
the freedom of opinion and speech would be controlled, and then how can we
compensate for these problems?

> 악플은 온라인의 문제지만, 오프라인에서 그 원인을 찾는게 맞다고 생각한다.
>
> 실제 오프라인에서 사람들과 이야기 해보고 토론을 해보면…  
>  자기 주장과 조금만 달라도 쉽게 화를 내고 흥분하는 사람들이 있다.  
>  하나의 현상과 사실로 전체를 판단해 버리는 사람들이 있다.  
>  주장을 펼칠 때, 논리보다는 감정과 선입견을 주요 근거로 말하는 사람들이 있다.  
>  또, 어떤 사람들은 진지한 주제 자체에 거부감을 갖고 조롱하고 비꼬는 것이 재밌고  
>  멋있는 것인양 행동하는 사람들이 있다.정작 면전에 대고는 아무말도 못하지만, 뒤에서는 온갖 욕설과 불만을 털어내는 사람들이 있다.

I think that malignant respondents are problems in the internet world, but we
should find the cause in the off-line world.

