On the 19th of this month, one of the major internet portal sites announced
the new period of blog journalism in Korea. Their section, media daum blogger
news which opened last November, like other portal sites chose blogger
reporters within their portal site, and showed news from their own blogger
reporters. Bloggers had a hard time finding other bloggers’ posts by topics
and looking for quality posts. The new decision of Daum is to start putting
blog news from other portal sites, setting up the direct link to those blogs,
and using trackback and RSS systems. They also promised to establish more
active blog reporters, such as video clip reporters. After this news, some
blggers are happy about it, but others are not. Some bloggers are concerned
about their identities and functions of blogs.

A post of a blogger, [philomedia](http://philomedia.tistory.com/3), received
the interest of other bloggers.

> 블로거는 기자가 아니다.  
>  나는 ‘블로거는 기자가 돼서는 안된다'고 생각한다. 따라서 블로거는 ‘취재'를 해서도 안된다고 생각한다. (물론 전업기자가 쓰는
> 블로그나, 전업은 아니더라도 글쓰는 일을 직업의 일부로 삼는 사람들이 쓰는 블로그는 예외다. 그것은 개인 블로그에서 ‘발생한 뉴스'가
> 아니라, 직업기자가 블로그에 ‘쓴 뉴스'다.) 내가 잘못 생각하고 있는지는 모르겠지만 블로거와 기자의 가장 큰 차이는 ‘취재'를 하느냐
> 하지 않느냐에 있다고 본다. ‘취재'라는 것은 내 이야기가 아니라 남의 이야기를 간접경험하는 일이고 ‘기사'는 이런 취재를 바탕으로
> 또다른 제3자(대중)에게 남의 이야기를 알려주는 일이다. 취재의 넓이와 깊이, 기사의 문장력과 매체력에 따라 그 기사가 좋은 기사,
> 훌륭한 기사가 될 수 있을지 몰라도 취재해서 쓴 이야기는 어디까지나 남의 이야기를 간접경험한 이야기일 뿐이다.

Bloggers are not reporters.  
I think that ‘bloggers should not be reporters.’ Therefore, bloggers should
not ‘collect news’ either (Professional reporters’ or writers’ blogs are
exceptional because their writings are not the news which appear in individual
blogs, but those which are written professionally). My thought could be wrong,
but I really think the big difference between bloggers and reporters is
‘collecting news’ or not. ‘Collecting news’ is not talking about my story, but
experiencing other stories. An ‘article’ makes other people know about those
stories. The depth of ‘collecting news’, writing skills, and media power
influence whether an article is good or not.

> 반면 블로그는 내 이야기다. ‘내 이야기'가 일반적으로는 받아들여지지 않는 엉뚱한 이야기일수도 있고, 일반화할 수 없는 특이한 이야기일
> 수도 있으나 그것은 엄연한 팩트(fact)를 바탕으로 한다. 팩트를 가진 사람이 본인의 입으로(제3자의 입을 빌리지 않고) 스스로
> 퍼블리싱하는 게 블로그이다.코끼리를 본 적은 없으나 코끼리를 많이 본, 전문적으로 본 사람을 취재하여 코끼리를 그린 그림이 기사라고
> 한다면 코끼리를 전체적으로 보지는 못했으나, 코끼리 다리 만진 사람이 올린 팩트, 코 만진 사람이 올린 팩트, 꼬리 만진 사람이 올린
> 팩트, 그러다가 코끼리를 전부 다 본 사람이 올린 팩트들이 모두 모여서 거대한 진실을 만들어 나가는 게 블로고스피어라고 나는 생각한다.

On the other hand, blogs are about their own stories. ‘My story’ could be
regarded as absurd or not common content. But it is based on fact. And the
fact is published by that person in his (or her) own blog. In other words, a
person who has never seen elephants interviews a person who has seen elephants
many times or a professional. It is an article. On the other hand, the fact
that a person touched an elephant’s leg, the fact that a person touched its
nose, the fact that a person touched its tail, and the fact that a person saw
an elephant… all these facts gather together. The blogosphere’s job is to get
them together and to make a big truth.

> 블로거는 기자 흉내도 내서는 안된다.  
>  블로그가 대안 미디어로 기대를 모으고, 많은 사람들이 블로고스피어의 발전을 바라는 것은 그동안 제도권 언론이 전해주는 간접적 사실에
> 의존하여 세상을 바라보던 것을 이제 팩트를 가진 사람들이 모여 진실을 공유할 수 있게 될 것이라는 기대감 때문이다. 따라서 블로그는
> 자신이 본 것만 말하고 경험한 것만 써야 한다. 어줍잖게 기자 흉내를 내서는 안된다. 자신이 본 몇 개의 팩트를 바탕으로 억지로
> 일반화시키는 제도권 언론의 잘못된 전철을 답습해서도 안된다. 괜히 블로그뉴스, 블로그기자단 이라는 단어에 현혹돼서 기사를 쓰기 위해
> 본업을 제쳐두고 기사꺼리 찾으러 돌아다니거나, 없는 사실을 과장해서 이야기하거나, 하지도 않은 가공의 인터뷰를 적거나 하는 일은 정말
> 해서는 안되는 일이다.

Bloggers should not even imitate reporters.  
Blogs are alternative media. The reason why many people look forward to the
development of the blogosphere is that they don’t have to depend on facts that
conservative media have given them any more. They can share the truth with
people who have different facts. Therefore, bloggers should write things they
have really seen and experienced. They shouldn’t try to be reporters. They
should not follow the paths that conservative media get accustomed to, which
they write based on a few facts that they saw. Being enticed by nice words,
‘blogger news’ and ‘blog reporter team,’ bloggers don’t have to look for a
thing in order to write an article, exaggerate stories not based on fact, and
write a post based on imaginative interview.

> 그냥 자신의 생업에, 일상에 충실하게 살다가 남들과 꼭 공유하고 싶은 팩트가 발생했을 때 한 번씩 블로그에 글을 올리면 그만인 것이다.
> 좀더 적극적으로 나간다면 미디어다음의 이슈트랙백 같은 코너에 자신이 가장 잘 알고 있는 문제에 대한 이슈가 올라왔다면 트랙백으로 글을
> 올려주는 정도면 더 할 나위가 없을 것이다. 그러나 미디어다음은 그렇게 생각하지 않는 것 같다. 며칠 보지는 않았지만 미디어다음의
> 블로거뉴스를 보면 순수한 의미의 블로거들을 육성하기보다는 ‘프리랜서 기자'를 육성하고자 하는 것처럼 보인다. 미디어다음이 막강한
> 트래픽(독자수)을 무기로 다음의 우산 아래 들어오는 프리랜서 기자를 양산하고, 이를 바탕으로 그동안의 편집권력에서 더 나아가 콘텐츠에
> 있어서까지 기성언론과 맞상대하겠다는 생각을 갖고 있다면 이는 블로고스피어에 좋은 일일까? 설사 그것이 다음의 기획의도가 아니라고 하더라도
> 그런 식으로 흘러갈 공산이 다분하다. 그것은 기성언론사보다 훨씬 많은 독자수를 보유하고 있는 포털사이트가 블로거에게 ‘기자'라는 타이틀을
> 부여하고, 보상체계를 갖추고, 우수한(?)블로거에게는 편집권력을 부여함으로써 이미 시작된 것이나 마찬가지다.

Just have your own life. And when a fact, which you would like to share with
others, comes about, you can put up a post. If you would like to be more
active, check ‘issue trackback.’ If there is an issue you are knowledgeable
about, you can write about it. However, it seems that it’s not the intention
of the portal site. It is likely that they would like to cultivate ‘freelance
reporters,’ rather than bloggers. If they cultivate freelance reporters, is it
good for the blogosphere? Maybe it is not what they are aiming for, but it
could be directed. Portal sites have more readers than conservative media now.
They endow the title, ‘reporter’ to bloggers and give compensation. Excellent
(?) bloggers among them even have previleges of editing.

On Philomedia's blog, [Nova](http://philomedia.tistory.com/3#comment223883)
agreed with his opinion.

> 저 역시 블로거는 자신의 이야기를 하는 것으로 충분하다고 생각합니다. 그리고 취재라는 형태를 통하지 않고, 개인의 이야기가 직접 전달되는
> 구조라는 점에서 RSS 신디케이션과 블로그스피어의 역할에 큰 기대를 가지고 있습니다. 이런 생각 때문인지 미디어다음이 말하는 프로블로거,
> 블로거기자, 기사라는 용어가 마음에 들지 않는 점도 있습니다.

I also think that bloggers should just talk about their own stories, not
collect news in order to write an article, I look forward to the roles of
blogosphere and RSS syndication because, through them, their stories will be
directly spread around. So, I am reluctant to terms, such as pro-blogger,
blogger reporter, blogger articles, which Media Daum often uses.

On the other hand, [Sepial](http://philomedia.tistory.com/3#comment223883) had
a different opinion.

> 소속이 없다는 점은 담당 데스크의 압력때문에 소신을 꺾을 일이 없고, 블로거이기 때문에(그야말로 뉴스 생산자이자 소비자니까…) 보다
> 독자와 가까운 글을 쓸 수 있으며, 아무래도 기자보다야 청탁으로부터 자유롭지 않은가 싶습니다… 틀에 박히고 위에서 내려오는 기사가 아닌
> 기사를 읽을 수 있어서 저는 블로거뉴스도 나름 좋아합니다.

Without any attachment, bloggers can be free to write what they believe. They
can write (as the position of both producer and consumer of news) articles
which are closer to readers. They might be much more free because they don’t
get any favor like reporters do… I like their writings because their writings
are not stereotyped.

