Egyptian blogger Asmaa Yasser – [_Dawn_](http://elfagreya.blogspot.com/) –
writes [here](http://elfagreya.blogspot.com/2008/12/blog-post.html) about her
experience at the Mubarak Public Library:

اعتدت منذ صغرى على الذهاب الى هناك.. الى مكتبة مبارك_الموجودة بشارع مراد
بالجيزة_للقراءة واستعارة بعض الكتب..أحبها جدا لأنها تحوى الكثير من الكتب التى
شكلت جزء من تفكيرى ووعيى فى فترة طفولتى  
…  
ما لفت نظرى هو ما رأيته فى المرات الأخيرة التى ذهبت فيها الى هناك وكنت بصحبة
أصدقاء لى كبار وصغار..وجدنا رفوف جديدة فى قاعة الصغار عليها مجموعة من كتب وقصص
الأطفال والتى تبدو هيئتها الجديدة والجميلة من على بعد..لفتت نظر الأطفال
فأشاروا الينا ان نذهب لنراها عن قرب..وجدناها صادرة عن عدة دور نشر و وجدنا هذا
الشريط المطبوع أسفل أغلفتها..شريط أبيض مكتوب عليه بوضوح “من الشعب
الأمريكى”..أظنها جزء من المعونة على شكل ثقافى..أحببت أن تشاركونى رؤيتها وما
تكون لدى من خواطر حول ذلك.

I have been used to visiting Mubarak Public Library, which is located in
Mourad Street in El Guiza, since I was a child. I really like the library
because of the books found there which helped in shaping my personality and
way of thinking.  
…  
But in my recent visits there with some of my friends, I've noticed some new
shelves in the children's hall with new and neat books on them. Also the young
ones among us have noticed those new books and wanted us all to go there to
see them. And there I realized that they all have the logo of the [USAID
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USAID)on them. And I think they are part of the
U.S. non-military foreign aid program, but this time in the cultural form. And
I want to share with you my thoughts about those new books.

كان اول تلك الخواطر شعور داخلى ببعض الحزن..كثيرا سيتفق معى على أننا لا نحمل
عداءاً للشعب الأمريكى ولكن عداءنا الحقيقى للسياسة الأمريكية.. ولكننى فى نفس
الوقت لم أرتضى داخليا ان يصل أطفالنا الى مرحلة تهدى اليهم فيها الثقافة كمعونة
او هدية وليست حتى من خلال برنامج تبادلى بيننا وبينهم تنتقل فيه كتب الاطفال من
هنا لهناك والعكس

In the beginning I was sad … most of us will agree that we do not have any
hard feelings towards the American people, but what we really hate is the
American government's foreign policy … but what I really didn't like here was
that those books were offered in the form of aids and donations and not in the
form of mutual cultural exchange.

ولكن ما ان مررت على بعضها حتى وجدت ملمح اخر يميز الكثير منها..ملمح كثيرا ما
وجدته واضحا لى فى معظم الانشطة القادمة الينا من الغرب او باشرافه  
…  
كثير من كتب المجموعة على هذه الشاكلة..هى معانى راقية ولكن الا تلاحظون كم هى
مفصولة عن مرجعيتنا الاسلامية..فليست هناك اشارة ولو بسيطة الى ربط قيمة كالتسامح
عند الطفل بحب الله له او بقدوة فى تاريخنا القديم او الحديث..يمكن تبرير ذلك بان
الطبيعى لكاتبة لا تدين بالاسلام_على قدر ملاحظتى_ان لا ترجع الامور اليه..لكن
النقطة الهامة هنا هى انهم _واحتملوا منى شيئ من نظرية المؤامرة المدروسة:)_
يمدون الينا يد العون بكتب مهداة الينا تحمل بداخلها قيم فى اصل اسلامنا وهويتنا
ولكنها مفصولة عنها .

But as soon as I started to read these books, I got another impression. And
impression that is common in many of the cultural activities that are imported
to us from the west, and supervised by it.  
…  
The books have got many positive values and morals, but they are all separated
from our Islamic values. There is not even a single hint that relates some
noble value like forgiveness for example to our beliefs and our own cultural
heritage. This is normal because the writers are non-Muslims but what really
concerned me here – and please bear with me and my conspiracy theories :) – is
that such books are intended to separate those noble values from our Islamic
beliefs.

نجد أنفسنا امام أمرين اما التفاعل بوعى مع كتب وقصص كتلك واما الابتعاد عنها
مؤثرين السلامة واللجوء الى الحلول الأسهل كحصر مجال القراءة على الانتاج ذى
الطابع الاسلامى المباشر..أجد نفسى بالطبع مع الحل الأول وهو التفاعل معها وعدم
غلق اعيننا واعين اطفالنا عنها لكن مع وعينا وحرصنا على ان نربطها لهم باسلامنا
وهويتنا واخلاق نبينا وقدواتنا بشكل محبب بل و يروها فينا واقعا يعاش من حولهم

And finally we have to chose one of two options, either to consciously react
with those books or keep our children away from them and limit their readings
to Islamic books. And I myself prefer the first option where we can let our
children read such books but exert some efforts in parallel to relate those
values in their minds to our Islamic values and our Prophet's teachings in a
way which is pleasant to them.

