Do they have some plans in the Western media and cultural scene to tease us
all the time? Do they really like creating controversies in our streets? Or,
is it the fact that we are too sensitive that makes us an easy target? Are we
really too sensitive and love to overreact all the time? I really don't know,
but certainly no one here likes to see a dog named after him. It's considered
an insult here. And even if the dog is named after a controversial president
like Anwar El-Sadat, who was both praised and cursed at the same time across
the whole Arab world, many people here aren't expected to be pleased after
seeing a dog named after him in the movie _I love you man_.

Adham wrote [here](http://adham2009.blogspot.com/2009/08/blog-post_05.html):

المشهد من فيلم  
i love you man  
عبارة عن صديقين و كلب ماشيين فى شارع , صديق صاحب الكلب سأله عن اسم الكلب  
رد عليه وقاله : أنور السادات على اسم رئيس مصر  
استغرب الصديق و قاله و ده علشان انت معجب بسياساته؟!  
قاله لأ لأن الكلب ده يشبه الرئيس المصرى بالضبط !  
انتهى المشهد  
الملاحظ ان المشهد لا يحتوى على اى اهانة للرئيس المصرى الراحل ( على حسب عادات
الامريكان ) بدليل ان اول احتمال بدر لذهن صديقه ( هو اعجابه بسياسات انور
السادات )  
لكن بالنسبة لنا كمصريين التشبيه بالكلب اهانة لا تغتفر!

A scene from the movie, “ _I Love you man_ “.  
Two friends and a dog walking down the street, and one of them asks the other
about the dog's name.  
The dog owner replies, Anwar El-Sadat: it's named after the Egyptian
president.  
The guy was amazed and asks the dog owner if it is because he likes the
Egyptian president and his policies.  
But the dog owner replies: “No, it's just because it looks like him”  
The scene is over.  
According to the America customs, it is not really considered as an insult,
especially that the first thought to pop in the guy's mind, was that it is
named after El-Sadat because his owner likes his policies.  
Yet, we – as Egyptians – consider it an unforgettable insult to be compared to
a dog.

_Zeinobia_ also wrote about the same scene
[here](http://egyptianchronicles.blogspot.com/2009/08/i-do-not-love-you-
man.html):

Now despite it has been screened from several months , it will cause an uproar
in Egypt after its deliberate insult to late President

She then continued:

May be it is funny in the States but for us this is a huge insult even if it
were not for an icon like Sadat ,so you can imagine it when it comes to one of
our rulers.

She then wondered, how are we supposed to react to a scene like this one.

Cutting off this scene from the film to be screened in Egypt did not hide our
mistake and insult against this man , if this film was truly screened in
Egypt, then Ali Abu Shady, the head of censorship should apologize to the
Egyptian people and the family of President Sadat not to mention the least
thing he can do is to resign.  
…  
Where is the Egyptian Embassy in the United States from this insult ?? Where
are our Egyptian community from this insult against our President ?? Or they
only move when it comes to Mubarak !!??  
I swear I will be as angry as now if they call it Nasser or Naguib or even
Mubarak.  
It is not an overreaction or over sensitivity , yes East is East and West is
West , I remember that many Americans did not like when that company produced
a monkey doll on the shape of Obama. This is the same issue.  
…  
I hope this time the widow of President Sadat not only his daughter Rakia will
do something this time ?? !! Or will she consider it a freedom of expression
thing !!?? Well I know that one thing for sure is that Rakia Al-Sadat may sue
the production company DreamWorks pictures, its director John Hambrug and its
writer Larry Levin “ Hamburg co-wrote with him the screenplay”.  
Of course I know that DreamWorks Pictures is owned by Steven Spielberg , the
legendary director that usually is considered a Zionist in our media , I think
many including me will consider this film another insult to Egypt and
Egyptians in his long list of films he directed and produced. ‘The list is too
long to be honest’

Syrian [Anas Qtiesh](http://anasqtiesh.wordpress.com/) had a different point
of view, and here [left a
comment](http://egyptianchronicles.blogspot.com/2009/08/i-do-not-love-you-
man.html?showComment=1249333708644#c6532050342092786602) on Zeinobia's post
discussing his stand against conspiracy theories:

I highly doubt that Steven Spielberg has an anti-Egyptian agenda! I mean come
on, Hollywood is all about business, how much money a movie will make. Aren't
we over the conspiracy theories already? I know arabs are often protrayed in
the worst way possible in Holywood movies (there are movies like “The 13th
Knight” and “Kingdom of Heaven” that were fair)  
In the end it's all about making the big bucks.  
One more thing, “our rulers” are not prophets, and they are not iconicnal
characters cannonized beyond mistakes, being a ruler is a high ranked
government job. A ruler is a civil servant..  
As arabs we know that our worst enemies are our rulers, why are we still
defending them?

[Jillian York](http://jilliancyork.com/) also [left a
comment](http://egyptianchronicles.blogspot.com/2009/08/i-do-not-love-you-
man.html?showComment=1249403645943#c5210472718387393509) there discussing the
American's point of view, and how they do not consider such thing as an
insult:

Even if that was Spielberg's intent (which I highly, highly doubt), do you
really think this would register as an insult amongst most Americans? They
barely know that Egyptians are Arab, or where Egypt is, let alone who Sadat
is. And calling someone a dog in the US? Not really an insult.  
I really don't get where you're going with this.

And [a third comment](http://egyptianchronicles.blogspot.com/2009/08/i-do-not-
love-you-man.html?showComment=1249451827224#c2518605260859712119) from Mido –
aka [Adham](http://adham2009.blogspot.com/), wondering if censorship is really
a good decision:

المفروض نبقى ضد الحجب و المنع يا زنوبيا  
مش نقول فين الرقابة و فين ابو شادى؟  
السادات و ناصر و مبارك ليسوا ايقونات او رموز  
و حتى اهانتهم ليست اهانة لوطن عمره الالاف السنين  
و اهانة بوش لم تعتبر اهانة لأمريكا

Zeinobia, we are supposed to be against censorship. instead of looking for Abu
Shady to cut or censor a part of the movie.  
Sadat, Nasser, and Mubarak, are not icons nor symbols. and insulting them
isn't an insult to a many thousands years old nation. Just like insulting Bush
isn't considered as an insult to the United States.

And finally, Will at _KABOBfest_ wrote a post about the same scene
[here](http://www.kabobfest.com/2009/08/a-dog-named-anwar-sadat.html):

The Egyptian blogosphere — namely _Egyptian Chronicles_ and _Masrawy_ — is
starting to raise objections to the name of a dog in the Hollywood film, _‘I
Love You, Man.’_ The dog’s name is Anwar Sadat. A character explains the dog
is named for his resemblance to the former Egyptian president (not,
thankfully, out of admiration for his policies, as another character asks).  
Let’s not get carried away though.  
The bloggers are offended though for different reasons. _Masrawy_ puts it in
the context of anti-Arab portrayals in Hollywood, which tends to depict Arabs
as terrorists or barbarians. _Egyptian Chronicles_ focuses more on the insult
it is to an Egyptian national symbol, and she notes that any Egyptian leader’s
name shared by a dog would be a national insult. She also compares this to the
outrage over the Obama-monkey dolls and argues the film should be censored.

He then continues:

I have often seen anti-Arab racism expressed through name-calling, but rarely
are they called dogs in the United States. Actually, “dog” in the United
States is not really an insult. It is actually a term of endearment (spelled
“dawg”).  
…  
It should be noted that in the United States, people treat their dogs better
than they treat their children. This is why someone here will demean another
by calling him a “child.” Naming dogs after people is often seen as an
honorific. So there can be cultural disconnect over the dog issue.  
In this movie, though, it is clearly to mock Sadat and elicit cheap laughs.
But I am not sure it is intended to demean Arabs. I am not even sure if most
viewers know that Sadat or Egyptians are Arab.  
…  
Another reason I am not offended is that many Arabs have called Sadat “kelb,”
I am sure, and I have called him worse names. Is this a case of ‘we can trash
them but other cannot’?

