A new electronic sites law is being reviewed and drafted by the Jordanian
Parliament which requires website administrators to provide their site's
passwords to the government's Printing and Publication Directorate. In case
the admins refuse, says the draft, the sites will be closed down by the
concerned authorities. Blogger _Osama Romoh_ reacts to the news in
[this](http://osamaa.com/blog/parliament-asking-for-passwords.php/) post [Ar].

Exasperated with the news, _Romoh_ sarcastically writes:

ماذا يا نواب؟ لماذا لم تطلبوا أيضاً كلمات سر الفيس بوك الخاصة بأصحاب تلك
المواقع، وكذلك المسنجر والياهو مسنجر والـ Hi5 واشتراكاتهم في يوتيوب و Flickr
وإيميلاتهم على Gmail و موقع مكتوب وأسماء أمهاتهم وأخواتهم وعماتهم وخالاتهم
وجيرانهم وأصدقائهم ومن والاهم إلى يوم الدين؟ لماذا يا نواب لم تطلبوا “بالمرة”
قياسات بناطيلهم وقمصانهم وأحذيتهم وجواربهم و… ؟

Why are you doing this Members of Parliament? why don't you also ask for the
passwords of the Facebook accounts of the administrators of those sites? Why
don't you ask for the passwords for their Messenger and Yahoo Messenger and
their Hi5 and their contributions to YouTube, and Flickr, and their emails on
Gmail, and blogs on Maktoob, and the names of their mothers, sisters and
aunts, and the names of their friends and neighbours, from now until the end
of time? While you are at it, why don't you parliamentarians demand to know
the size of their trousers, and shorts, and shoes and socks and …?

Using logic, he argues:

إنّ ما يطلبه النواب الآن هو من سابع المستحيلات، فإن أصغر طفل يملك بريداً
الكترونياً يعي كل الوعي أن كلمة سر بريده لا يجب أن يعرفها أحد غيره في جميع
الأحوال، فكيف يتوقع النواب أن يخضع أصحاب المواقع الإخبارية لقرار يُجبرهم على
تقديم معلومات الدخول لصفحات التحكم في مواقعهم إلى دائرة المطبوعات والنشر؟ إن
لكل موقع أسرار وخصوصية، خصوصاً فيما يتعلق بالإحصائيات وتعليقات الزوار
والإعلانات وما إلى ذلك، فأي عاقل سوف يُسلّم مفاتيح موقعه لأي جهة كانت؟

What those MPs are asking for is the impossible. Even the youngest child who
owns an email account realises that his password shouldn't be shared with
anyone else, no matter what. How can those MPs expect that the admins of news
sites will accept their order to submit the passwords which give control to
their sites to the Printing and Publications Directorate? Every site has its
secrets and privacy, especially information related to statistics, readers
comments and advertisements, etc. Who is the sane person who will surrender
the key to his site to any one, whoever it may be?

Turning to readers and commentators, _Romoh_ notes:

وكيف سيشعر الزائر في هذه المواقع بالحرية أثناء القراءة أو التعليق إن كانت  
دائرة المطبوعات والنشر قادرة على معرفة معلوماته الشخصية؟

How will visitors feel free on those sites while reading and commenting, when
the Printing and Publication Directorate will be able to find out their
personal information?

The blogger adds:

وفي حالة رفض هذه المواقع تلك المطالب، كما سيحدث حتماً، فما هي الآلية التي
سيتخذها النواب لإغلاق هذه المواقع؟ إن أوباما وهو رئيس أقوى دولة في العالم لا
يحق له في أن يصدر أمراً بإغلاق هذه المواقع فبأي حق وبأي منطق يطلب النواب ذلك؟

In case the site admins refuse to comply which such orders, which will no
doubt happen, what are the mechanisms those MPs will take to close down those
sites? Obama, the President of the strongest country in the world, has no
right to issue orders to close down any websites. What right and what logic
are those MPs using to issue such an order?

_Romoh_ then appeals to the MPs to guard his country's reputation in the eyes
of the international community and spare Jordan further embarrassment:

إن الأردن لا يحتمل المزيد من الانتقادات الدولية حول حقوق الإنسان والتعبير
وحرية الصحافة بشتى أنواعها.. لذا يكفيكم أيها النواب أن تضعوا الأردن في موقف
حَرِج أمام العالم، ويكفيكم أن تضعوا أنفسكم في مواقف محرجة لا تُعدُّ ولا تُحصى
أمام الشعب.

Jordan is not in a position to face international criticism on human rights
and freedom of Press and expression .. therefore MPs should stop embarrassing
Jordan in front of the rest of the world. MPs should also stop putting
themselves in such embarrassing situations in front of the Jordanian people.

