Is co-education better than girls-only and boys-only schools? Moroccan blogger
_Mohammed Saeed Hjiouij_ [shares with us
](http://www.mshjiouij.com/blog/archives/139) his insight in this post I am
translating from Arabic.

_Hjiouij_ writes:

في النظام التعليمي المغربي، تأتي بين مرحلة التعليم الإبتدائي (ست سنوات) ومرحلة
التعليم الثانوي (ثلاث سنوات) مرحلة تسمى بالتعليم الإعدادي مدتها ثلاث سنوات.
تلك السنوات الثلاث درستها في مدرسة أنشئت حديثًا وكانت سنتي الأولى بها هي سنة
الإفتتاح لها.  
السنة الأولى درسنا في فصول غير مختلطة، الذكور في أقسامهم والإناث في أقسام
أخرى. لا أدري إن كان ذلك بقرار فردي من مدير المدرسة أم هو قرار وزاري. مرت
السنة بشكل عادي، كانت النتائج في غالبيتها عند حدود المتوسط، أي الحد الأدنى
للنجاح.  
في السنة الثانية تقرر تغيير النظام، وصرنا ندرس في فصول مختلطة. لكم أن تتوقعوا
التطور الصاروخي لجميع التلاميذ: لم تعد الإمتحانات مجرد واجبات يجب القيام بها،
بل فرصة للتسابق بين الذكور والإناث. نتائج كل إمتحان جديد تأتي أفضل من سابقه
(كانت تلك السنة هي بداية تفوقي في اللغة الفرنسية، قبل أن أتراجع عنها في مرحلة
لاحقة :) ).  
في السنة اللاحقة تواصل الأمر، وإشتعلت نيران الحماس بين الكل، إلا قلة لم تكن
لهم بالدراسة رغبة. لكن في مرحلة دراسة الثانوية تغير الأمر مرة أخرى، فبحكم
صعوبة التخصص الذي كنت أدرس، كان عددنا في الفصل قليلا وعدد الإناث أقل بكثير،
لذلك خفت مسألة التنافس، وإن لم تنعدم تمامًا.  
لو أردت تلخيص كل هذه الثرثرة في جملة واحدة لقلت: التعليم المختلط يدفع التلاميذ
إلى الإقبال على التعلم بالشكل الصحيح، كإكتساب معرفي وليس مجرد حفظ لصفحات
الكتب، من ثم فالتفوق يكون من نصيب الكل.

In the Moroccan system of education, there comes a period between primary
education (six years) and secondary education (three years) called
intermediate education, which spans three years. I took those three years in a
newly opened school and my first year there was the year it opened. In the
first year, we studied in boys-only classes – the boys were in one section and
the girls in another. I don't know whether it was a decision taken by the
principal or whether it was following orders from the ministry. The year
progressed normally and the majority of the results were about average. This
means that students were able to achieve the least requirements to pass their
class.  
In the second year, a decision was made to change the system and we started
classes in co-ed environments. You should have seen the quantum leap in the
student results: exams were no longer just a chore students had to complete.
Classes became an opportunity for boys and girls to compete against each
other. The results of each new exam were better than the exam which proceeded
it. That was the year I excelled in French classes before retrieving in the
following years :)  
The trend continued the following year. The fire of enthusiasm was fueled
among us all.  
However, at the secondary level, everything changed again. Because of the
difficulty of my specialisation, the number of students in my class was small.
Therefore, the number of girls was even smaller. This led to a drop in
competitiveness, if not put an end to it altogether.  
If I wanted to summerise this chat into one sentence I would say: Co-education
encourages students to approach learning the correct way, as gaining knowledge
and not just learning pages of a textbook. This means that excellence becomes
possible for everyone.

