On the 19th, a twenty-seven year old Korean soldier in Iraq was discovered
dead. He was shot at a barber shop in Zaytun, where Korean soldiers stationed.
It was the first death of a Korean soldier in Iraq since Korea arrived in
2004. While the media and army guess the death was suicide, his family and
some bloggers claim it couldn’t be. He had been stationed in Iraq less than a
month.

A blogger, [neocross](http://neocross.net/606), elaborates on the meaning of
the Iraq War and criticizes the attitude of the Korean government toward the
U.S.A.

> 어차피 현재 중동지역에서의 전쟁은 무의미한 것이다. 미국의 논리에 따라, 미국의 이익을 취하기 위해 벌어지는 전쟁을 ‘자유'와
> ‘민주주의'의 가면을 씌우고 행해지고 있다는 사실은 대부분의 사람들은 다 알고 있다. 물론 정부의 입장에서는 미국의 눈치를 안 볼 수
> 없기에 끌고가는 것이겠지만, 자신들을 믿고 있는 국민들의 눈치도 봐야하지 않을까 싶다. 명분도 없고, 이익도 없는 수렁텅이같은 전쟁에
> 우리가 얼마나 끌려가야할지 모르겠다.

Anyhow the Iraq War is meaningless. Everyone knows that this war has occurred
for America’s sake, under the masks of ‘freedom’ and ‘democracy.’ In the
position of the Korean government, they act according to the situation of the
US government, but don’t they have to see how the people think about it? I
don’t know how deep we have to be sucked into the war.

[Phoenixq](http://phoenixq.freelog.net/43165), who has known this dead
soldier, shared his pain with other bloggers and doesn’t believe his death was
suicide. He talks about his experiences in military service.

> 오늘 아래와 같은 기사들이 올라오고 뉴스에도 방송되었다.  
>  젠장… 내가 2학년을 올라가던 시절..  
>  00년도에 신입생을 꼬셔 우리 한성대 패러글라이딩 동아리 피닉스로 들어오게 하려고 새내기 배움터에 갔다가 용감하고 씩씩해 보이는 녀석을
> 하나 찍어 우리 동아리에 가입시켰고 녀석과 나 군입대 하기 전까지 함께 동아리 생활을 했었다.  
>  참 씩씩하고 용감했던 녀석으로 기억하는데…  
>  오종수..  
>  내가 군대 간 후 삼사관학교로 편입했다는 소식을 듣고 이후로 연락이 잘 되지 않았는데..  
>  이라크에 갔었던 모양이구나..  
>  그런데 기사는 은근히 녀석의 자살 가능성이 높다는 식으로 써져 있는것이… 영 맘에 안든다. 오중위가 사용하던 소총과 탄피 하나가
> 떨어져있었고 턱부분에 총상이라…

Today there was the following news. Damn… the time when I was in my sophomore
year…  
0000 year, I enticed a freshman to join my paragliding club, Phoenix. He
looked brave and valiant. I spent time with him until we went to military
service.  
I remember him well… such a valiant and gallant buddy…  
Oh Jong-su …  
After military service, I heard he transferred to the military school and we
haven’t contacted each other…  
And now I know he was in Iraq…  
I don’t like the way the media deals with his death, easily guessing him to
commit suicide…  
Being shot under his chin… his own rifle and an empty cartridge in that place…

> 나 군대있던 시절 무월광 아무것도 보이지 않는 산속에서 유격훈련중 나뭇가지가 내 눈꺼풀을 찢고 들어왔던 기억이 난다.다행이 안구까지
> 들어오지 않아 실명되지는 않았지만… 당시 대대장의 진급이 코앞이라 실명되었을 경우 상부로 보고하지 마란 명령이 있었다.  
>  비슷한 예로 페인트 작업이 많은 봄철 계속해서 페인트 작업 휴식시 담배불이 붙어 화상을 입는 사고가 잦으니 정신교육을 철저히 하란
> 공문이 세번이 내려 온 후 우리 부대 한 녀석이 똑같은 사고로 한쪽 다리가 곪아 썩을정도로 화상을 입었는데 대대장의 진급 이유로 외진도
> 보내지 않고 대대 내 의무대에서 주구장창 소독만 하다가 외부에서 누가 오면 창고에 넣어두고 눈속임을 하던 생각이 난다.

I remember, when I was in military service, my eye was hurt by a tree branch
during guerilla training. It was dark in the mountain. Fortunately, it wasn’t
deep enough, so that I could avoid losing my eye sight. At that time, there
was an order from the superior which I should not report because the battalion
commander was about to be promoted.  
Another case was when one of the soldiers at my military unit had an accident
when we had to do painting chores. His leg was scalded from a cigarette butt.
Due to the same reason, the unit didn’t send him to the hospital and just
sterilized his wound. When someone outside visited the unit, they put him in a
storage room to hide him.

> 흠….  
>  지원해서 이라크까지 가서 공석 중대장업무까지 맏은 녀석이 한달도 안되서 자살했을 이유는 만무하다. 진실이 궁금하다.

Hm…  
He volunteered to go to Iraq and was even made a captain. It cannot be the
case he killed himself when less than a month had passed. I would like to know
the truth.

> 삼가 고인의 명복을 빕니다..

I pray for the repose of his soul.

Many bloggers, like [bj1337](http://blog.daum.net/bj1337/11243483), are angry
about his death and demand the withdrawal of the army.

> 명분도 없는 전쟁터에 나가서 우리 젊은이들은 과연 무엇을 하고 있는가. 누구를 위해 싸우며 누구를 위해 죽어야 하는가. 이라크에 있는
> 자이툰 부대를 그 곳에 더 이상 두어서는 안 된다. 한 명이 죽은 것 밖에 없다는 논리를 펴는 혹자도 있을 수 있다. 또 직접 전쟁을
> 하다 상대방 군대에 의해서 사망한 사건이 아니라고 말하는 사람도 있을 것이다. 그러나 이 전쟁은 한 명이 죽고 사는 것이 아니다. 어떻게
> 사망을 했는지도 중요하지도 않다. 가장 중요한 것은 우리가 가장 우려하는 군인이 죽었다는 것이다. 미국 내에서도 이라크 전쟁이 월남전
> 이후 가장 더러운 전쟁으로 불리워지는 현실에서 더 이상 이 전쟁에 우리 군대가 그 곳에서 목숨을 잃은 것은 의미가 없다. 이 전쟁에
> 처음부터 참가하는 것에 국민의 반대가 만만치 않았다. 그러나 우리 정부는 국익을 위해 어쩔 수 없다는 한 마디로 반대 여론을 무마시켰다.
> 지금 미국 전사자가 3000명이 넘었다. 그들 역시 이 전쟁에 얼마나 추악한 것인지 알고 있다. 우리는 미국에 할만큼 했다. 더 이상 이
> 더러운 전쟁에 발을 담고 있을 이유가 없다는 뜻이다. 대규모 병력을 이라크에 보냈고 나름대로 이라크 재건을 위해 일도 했다. 그 정도면
> 명분 없는 전쟁에서 우리로서는 최선을 다했다. 더 이상 있을 이유가 없다. 이제 우리 젊은이들을 귀국 시켜야 한다. 이번 우리 군인의
> 죽음의 결과가 어떻게 나오든 더 이상 이라크에 우리 군을 남겨 놓아서는 안 된다.

What do our young people do in the unjustifiable war? For whom do they fight?
For whom do they die? We should not leave our soldiers in Iraq. Some could say
just one died. Others could also say the death was not really related to the
war. But this war is not about one death. How he died is not important either.
The most significant truth is that a life is gone.  
Even in America, the Iraq War was regarded as the most humiliating war after
the Vietnamese War. It is meaningless that our young people lose their lives
in this war anymore. There were numerous objections from our people we should
not join this war. But the government appeased the opposite opinion under the
pretext of the nation’s sake. More than 3,000 American solders have lost their
lives due to this war. They also know how ugly this war is. We did enough for
America. I mean we don’t have to soak our feet in this dirty war anymore. We
did out best for the unjustifiable war enough. There is no reason why we have
to be there still. We should take our young people back. No matter what reason
he died this time, we should not leave our solders there anymore.

> 당장 철군하라~

Withdraw the troops at once.

