On October 7th, the Kazakhstani users have found themselves unable to access
popular social network LiveJournal. This website is the most popular blogging
platform in the Russian-speaking communities on the post-Soviet space.
Bloggers in the neighboring Kyrgyzstan were also cut off – particularly, those
whose ISPs use the facilities of KazakhTelecom, the Kazakhstan's state-owned
telecom monopoly. The Kazakhtelecom officials kept silence for more than a
week, and only on October 15th, they have publicly
[denied](http://www.zakon.kz/our/news/news.asp?id=30210634) any implication in
filtering the content [ru].

At the same time, LiveJournal is still accessible from Kazakhstan only through
several independent providers like 2Day Telecom and Ducat. The overwhelming
majority of users are forced to use bypass unconventional methods to enter the
LiveJournal service and continue blogging – among these ways are a mirror,
mylj.ru, and a couple of online anonymizers. Some of them use Tor. The users –
among whom there are a lot of journalists – have managed to draw media
attention to the problem. Reuters and some major Russian news agencies
reported on the issue. Bloggers have prepared and submitted an open letter to
the management of SUP, a Moscow-based company that runs LiveJournal.

Among the possible reasons of blockage are probable technical troubles,
however, purely technical problems do not normally last for such a long period
of time. The main rumored political reasoning behind the crackdown on the
blogging service is a diary of [Rakhat
Aliyev](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rakhat_Aliyev), the former presidential
son-in-law, media tycoon and boss of the special services. He had been
repeatedly accused by the public of various wrongdoings, but evaded punishment
until last year, when he was eventually charged with preparation of a coup,
abduction of people and racketeering, and sentenced to 40 years in jail. He
fled to Vieanna, Austria, and sporadically uses Internet to throw in
discrediting materials about the ruling elite. Although, the base website,
from which the articles in his LiveJournal are being reposted, is not
filtered.

