In order to advocate the implementation of universal suffrage and abolition of
functional constituencies in Hong Kong, the Civic Party (CP) and the League of
Social Democrats (LSD) launched the 5 district referendum movement through the
resignation of 5 legislators in 5 election districts. Candidates from the 2
parties will run in the by-election and invite Hong Kong people to vote for
genuine democratic reform. The election date has been set on May 16.

As the China Government openly criticized the 5 district referendum movement a
violation of Basic Law, instead of encouraging citizens to execute their
rights, SAR government officials [stressed
that](http://www.rthk.org.hk/rthk/news/expressnews/20100425/news_20100425_55_663559.htm)
the 5 district referendum would divide the society and for the first time, the
government's TV election advertisement does not urge citizen to cast the vote.

The pro-establishment and pro-China party (DAB) and Liberal Party (LP)
boycotted the election and criticized it a waste of tax payers’ money. On the
other hand, the pan-democrats split up on the referendum movement: Democratic
Party (DP) along with a number of independent pan-dem legislators refused to
join in, believing that they can strike for a better reform package through
talks. They established the Alliance for Universal Suffrage to communicate
with the government and pro-establishment parties but there isn't any space
for negotiation so far. The government still refuses to draw a roadmap towards
genuine universal suffrage.

The recent Government proposal on 2012 political reforms have not reduced the
proportion of [Functional
Constituencies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_constituency) in the
Legislative Council. The reform package adds ten seats in the 2012
legislature, of which 5 seats are from district direct election and the other
five seats will be elected by District Council members through “proportional
representation”, which implies that the pro-establishment party
[DAB](http://www.dab.org.hk/en/index.jsp) (Democratic Alliance for Betterment
and Progress of Hong Kong) will get a majority of the 5 seats as they are more
resourceful in community work.

In order to create a voting opportunity, a number of University Student Unions
form a 2012 Universal Suffrage Alliance and back up 5 student candidates to
participate in the by-election. The alliance believes that social injustice in
the city comes from the collusion between the political and economic
privileged groups and the Functional Constituencies is the result of such
political corruption. Their declaration, distributed via facebook and various
websites [states that](http://www.inmediahk.net/node/1006738):

>
> 不平等的政治制度，實質上就是維護著大財團和政府官僚的勾結。事實上，功能組別不斷在議會裡阻礙著利民政策通過──而這些利民政策，根本不違反挑戰現時社會整體發展方向，只為了在資源、財富分配極度不均的情況下，為勞苦大眾討回一點公道而已。這些利民政策包括立法最低工資、公平競爭法、回購領匯、屏風樓、監管私樓物業交易……而近日關於最低工資的討論，便可見一斑。

The unjust political system is reinforcing the collusion between corporate and
government bureaucrats. As a matter of fact, legislators elected by Functional
Constituencies have been obstructing beneficial social policies that
reallocate resource and wealth to create a fairer society. These policies
include legislation on minimum wages, fair competition and screen building,
monitoring the private property market and repurchasing back the Link Real
Estate Investment Trust with public fund, and etc. The discussion on minimum
wage recently reflects the problem of the current political system.

The student alliance then proposes a series of reform in areas such as
taxation and education and stresses the inter connection between people's
livelihood and democratic reform.

To encourage more people to vote on 16 of May, Civic Party produces a video
juxtaposing the personal history of an old man with the political history of
Hong Kong. The video has been widely circulated online and below is a
translation of the script:

>
> 我叫葉國華，今年已經六十幾歲，年紀大了，開始遺忘很多事情。但耳邊依然徘徊著八九年的春天，太太彌留之際留下的叮嚀。要看著孩子成家立室。要看到回歸的煙花盛放。要睇到千禧年的日出。當日她的數個願望，大多數已經實現。轉睇間廿多年過去了，香港的變化看似很多，又似是很少。再不見在街遊玩的小孩，只剩下為供樓捱更抵夜的父母。以前跟太太約會的地方，很多已拆掉，悄悄地消失。換上冷冰冰的商場大廈。不少志同道合的老朋友，已經走了。當年躺在病床的她，曾經很有信心地說，不出二十年，香港人一定見到真民主。我笑她的率直，更笑她的保守，今天打開報紙，很可惜，看到的仍然是荒謬，代表少數人的議員，壓倒七百萬普羅大眾的聲音，在這個開放的社會，竟然有人自鳴得意地說：八百人選出來的特首有廣泛代表性。

My name is Yip Kwok Hua. I am in my sixties and start to forget many things.
However, I still remember the spring in 1989 when my wife whispered her last
words to me before she died: you have to see our kids getting married, the
firework during the handover and the sunrise in the Millennium. Most of her
wishes had come true and now 20 years have passed. It seems that Hong Kong has
changed a lot but at the same time little has been changed. We can't see kids
playing in the street anymore and their parents are working days and nights to
pay off their house mortgage. Many places where I used to date with my wife
have been torn down, disappeared and changed into cold and indifferent
shopping malls. Many old friends have passed away. Remember at the time when
my wife was sick in bed, she said in confident that within 20 years Hong Kong
will have genuine democracy. I laughed at her simple mindedness and her
conservatism. Unfortunately, today's newspapers are still full of absurdity.
Legislators who represent minority voices over-rule 7 million people's will.
In this open society, some still said the Chief Executive elected by 800
people can represent Hong Kong.

> 1990年頒布基本法，承諾特首以及立法會最終由普選產生  
>  1997年四百人小圈子選舉產生的董建華就任特首  
>  2004年人大釋法否決0708雙普選  
>  2007年曾蔭權承諾在普選問題上玩鋪勁  
>  2009年政府翻訂政改方案普選步伐停滯不前  
>  2010年功能組別至今未取消

1990 – Basic Law was announced and it promises that Hong Kong will eventually
have universal suffrage for the SAR Chief Executive and Legislative Council.  
1997 – The Chief Executive Tung Chee-hua was elected by 400 people.  
2004 – The People Congress reinterpreted the Basic Law and ruled out universal
suffrage on 2007 and 2008  
2007 – Donald Tsang promised to stand firm on Universal Suffrage  
2009 – The SAR government recycled the reform package without any time table
for universal suffrage  
2010 – Functional Constituencies still exists today

>
> 但我從來無懷疑過，亦無放棄過，因為在我身邊的香港人，仍然肯為民主發聲，仍然有很多辦法。太太曾經說過，無人可以肯定未來，更加無人可以否定未來。只要聽到群眾的聲音，相信手中的一票，我知道成功就在眼前。五。
>
> 一六投民主一票。盡快實現真普選，廢除功能組別。

However, I have never doubted and will never give up hope. People around me
are still voicing out and trying very hard to work their way out. My wife once
said that no one can be sure about the future, and no one can deny the future.
People are voicing out and we have to believe on the vote in our hand. Very
soon we will be successful.

