[![Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät playing at Helsinki Punk Fest Vol 3. 14/1/2011.
Photo by Flickr user Tomi Tirkkonen. CC BY-NC-SA
2.0](https://globalvoicesonline.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/03/5372929536_7cab19a0c8_b-800x533.jpg)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/pnuk/5372929536)

Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät playing at Helsinki Punk Fest Vol 3. 14/1/2011.
Photo by Flickr user Tomi Tirkkonen. CC BY-NC-SA 2.0

_This article and radio report by[Rae Ellen
Bichell](http://www.pri.org/people/rae-ellen-bichell) for [The
World](http://www.pri.org/programs/the-world) originally [appeared on
PRI.org](http://www.pri.org/stories/2015-03-03/finlands-eurovision-finalists-
sing-about-discrimination-against-mentally-disabled) on March 3, 2015, and is
republished as part of a content-sharing agreement._

Gladiators in leather loincloths, a techno-opera singer dressed like Marie
Antoinette en route to a nightclub, blond men in turbans dancing to Bhangra
music. These were just some of the acts competing on Saturday to represent
Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest.

“It’s a little like Miss Universe only instead of sending a girl, every
country sends a song,” says John O’Connor, who has written a few books about
the contest, now in its 60th year.

Some 180 million viewers tune in each year to watch the parade of flamboyance
that is Eurovision. Last year’s winner was Conchita Wurst, a diva from Austria
with a full beard.

Among a field of oddballs in last weekend’s Finland finals, one group managed
to stand out: Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät, or “PKN” for short. They’re punk
rockers.

While their competitors adjusted togas and fluffed weaves into place, the four
middle-aged men in PKN just sat backstage. One fiddled with his jacket while
making a hissing sound.

“We’re mentally handicapped,” says Sami Helle, the band's bass player. The
members of PKN all have intellectual disabilities, including Down syndrome and
Williams syndrome.

Kari Aalto sings and writes lyrics, which are often inspired by frustrations
with daily life. Toni Välitalo has trouble talking, but he feels at ease
behind the drums. And Pertti Kurikka, a guitarist who started the band, has a
knack for riffs.

The group got their start six years ago in a music workshop for adults with
learning disabilities. Since then, they’ve been raging about everything from
political discrimination to getting their toenails clipped, a weekly group
home activity that Aalto utterly despises.

“I don't like … click click click,” Aalto says, making the sound of a toenail
clipper.

Their song titles include “I Hate The World,“ “Speech Impediment” and _“_
Policymakers Betray Us.”

The group has toured Europe, and even stopped at South by Southwest in Austin
last year to promote an award-winning 2012 documentary about them, “The Punk
Syndrome.” Another film is in the works.

“We’re like everybody else,” says Helle. “We just do the music, what we love,
and then we just do the job.”

PKN took the stage Saturday in between a pop number populated by smiley
dancers and a Spartacus-themed rock song punctuated by columns of fire. When
their turn came to perform “Aina Mun Pitää” (I Always Have To), there were no
flashy outfits or backup dancers.

“Well, we have fog, so that’s something,” said Helle, who wore his signature
leather jacket with the name of his favorite band, Whitesnake, written across
the back in black marker. The others wore leather jackets decked out with
patches and metal spikes. The lead singer yelled out a minute-and-a-half
[tirade ](http://lyrics.fi/pertti-kurikan-nimipaivat/aina-mun-pitaa)about
having to do everyday chores like cleaning, and things he wants to do but
can’t, like eating candy. They barely moved their feet.

The crazy thing is, the group won. The competition's national jury, which
included a panel of musicians, taxi drivers and children, favored a boy band
with a catchy tune about relationships. But call-in voters, whose collective
opinion counts for 90% of the score, tipped the scales.

Some observers picked them as the favorite going into the competition, but
their win caught others off-guard.

“I was just horrified,” John O'Connor says. “I thought this is possibly the
worst song I have every heard in Eurovision, bar none.”

But, like a lot of the fans who called in to vote for PKN, O’Connor’s opinion
changed when he heard more about their story.

“It was only later on, when I was reading all the headlines, that suddenly it
all made sense. I could see why this song would have resonated with the
audience,” he says, “And I could see why it won.”

PKN’s win isn’t so surprising when you look at Finland’s Eurovision track
record, he adds.

“Finland has always sort of gone out on this limb,” says O’Connor. “They were
the first country ever to do reggae in the contest, which they did in 1981,
and it was by this white, blonde, Rod Stewart look-alike. And it was
absolutely dreadful.”

The next year, the country got zero points for a song about nuclear fallout.

In a half century of competing in Eurovision, Finland achieved their one and
[only victory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAh9NRGNhUU) with Lordi, a hard
rock and heavy metal band dressed as armored monsters. “They’ve always done
this sort of dark stuff,” notes O’Connor.

Some critics say PKN won with “pity points”. But Jon Ola Sand, executive
supervisor of the Eurovision Song Contest, says the group is as legitimate as
any of the other performers. They’re honest punk rockers, “not trying to
seduce anyone with a fancy melody or sort of fancy dance routine,” he says.
“It’s really a hardcore punk song. And, of course, with their background and
their situation, it’s something completely different.”

The band accepted their victory on Saturday with tears in their eyes and gold
confetti stuck to their black leather jackets. Helle’s voice cracked as he and
Aalto belted out “We are the champions.”

Helle says the group won't change a thing for their performance at the
Eurovision semifinals in May in Vienna, except that “there could be more
smoke.”

