[![Smog in Beijing. Image from Wikimedia.org \(CC:
AT\)](https://globalvoicesonline.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/02/Beijing_pollution-800x598.jpg)](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Beijing_pollution.jpg)

Smog in Beijing. Image from Wikimedia.org (CC: AT)

_Editor's note: This article was written by Chu Hon Kueng, an experienced
environmental activist from Hong Kong. The Chinese version
was[published](http://www.inmediahk.net/node/1030888) at inmediahk.net on
January 24, 2015. This English version, translated by Serena Tsang, is
published here at Global Voices under a content partnership agreement. _

I put forward the idea that China should move its capital when Beijing was
covered by toxic smog early last year. A year has passed, and apart from the
“shock therapy” of “[APEC
blue](http://www.bloomberg.com/bw/articles/2014-11-10/for-apec-beijing-
briefly-cleans-up-its-skies-but-cant-help-the-sewage)”, the air quality in
Beijing is still sickening. While some people are worried that Beijing
residents could turn into environmental refugees and run away, let's face the
reality—the majority of mainland China's 1.3 billion people are, in fact,
already environmental refugees.

This may sound like an exaggeration. The idea, however, that the whole of
China's population are “environmental refugees” was posited some time ago by
Feng Yongfeng, a pioneer environmentalist in who recently received the 2014
China Top Ten Social Change Maker award. Feng
[stated](http://www.djzhj.com/Item/22096.aspx), “Nowadays in China, there are
hardly any measures to save, appraise and aid the environmental refugees. They
have to bear [the consequence of environmental pollution] entirely by
themselves.”

The word “bear” is loaded one in China, where people have had to bear so many
other costs of the country's economic progress. Today, China's urban
population outnumbers its rural population. The basic needs of urban dwellers
are simple: clean air, clean water, safe food and good transportation. Yet, in
which city in China can you breathe clean air, drink clean water and find food
without additives? Not to mention that most of the cities are surrounded by
miles of jammed highways and garbage-dumping sites.

The term “refugee” usually refers to the victims of disasters, wars, religious
and racial persecution, etc. In a nutshell, people who are forced away from
their homes into exile. “Environmental refugees” are those forced out of their
homelands by the degradation of environment. Here are two examples: The first
is the Chernobyl disaster in 1980s, when hundreds of thousands of people
within a 30km radium of the nuclear power station were evacuated. The second
is the [sinking of the South Pacific island nation
Tuvalu](http://www.climatechangedispatch.com/tuvalu-pm-says-pacific-island-
nations-sinking-while-science-shows-they-are-not.html) due to the rise of sea
levels resulting from global warming. The small country has had to appeal to
its neighbors Australia and New Zealand for help.

In China, the threats resulting from environmental pollution will not kill
people instantly. But they will spread like cancer cells in cities, towns and
counties, through rivers and over mountains, slowly ruining ordinary people's
health and quality of life. But you cannot excise or medicate away the effects
of pollution from rivers and mountains the way you can some forms of cancer.
The wealthy may seek foreign citizenship as a form of political insurance, but
the majority of people who remain in China might either be insufficiently
aware of the problem to run away from it, or simply don't have the capital to
do so. Although it is unlikely that Chinese refugees will seek refuge
worldwide, as in the political fable [Yellow
Peril](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_Peril), the prescription for the
illness of environmental degradation will be a huge challenge to the country.

Even if there won't be a flood of environmental refugees in the near future,
there's still reason to be anxious. Every year, in autumn and winter, Hong
Kong's Air Pollution Index flies off the charts, an indication that the impact
of pollution cannot be fenced off by borderlines. The “world's factory” of
[Zhujiang Delta](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pearl_River_Delta), China's
economic hub, might as well be called “the world's kitchen”. People earn
handsome sums of money, while leaving toxic substances in the air, soil and
water.

In South China, vast swaths of farmland are polluted by heavy metals, and who
knows how many of the area's produce ends up in Hong Kong? The pigs, cattle
and goats that imported into Hong Kong, what kind of feed and growth hormones
are they fed with? For water the risk is lower, as we are selfishly pumping
water directly from the less polluted Dongjiang River to Hong Kong through
sealed water pipes. But who knows what will happen in the future?

Over the past few weeks, residents in Guangzhou have protesting the pollution
of of their drinking water resources. A villager watering plants with reddish
wastewater told a Mainland media reporter: “This is poisonous water and
shouldn't be used for irrigation”. My friend in Mainland who runs a civil
society organization sighed: “I am 35 years old. I cannot drink clean water in
my hometown. In Guangzhou we can only drink water from Zhaoqing. I don’t know
where my daughter will be able to find clean water when she is my age.”

Recently, in Northern Zhongshan City, residents surrounded and blocked a
garbage incinerator that was polluting the environment. Instead, however, of
pressing the own to improve the operation, local government officials arrested
the residents. Supporters started a phone calling campaign and gathered
outside the police station, but no one answered their demands and there was no
response from the police station. The police even demanded that people to
delete their social media posts about the incident before they would consider
releasing those arrested.

Mainland China's only strategy to solve the problem of cities being surrounded
by garbage-dumping sites is the building of incinerators all across the
country. It's a business that is sure to make huge profits. Whether the
facilities include proper pollution prevention measures is another story,
which explains the repeated protests concerning the construction of garbage
incinerators. According to Feng Yongen, the ones affected are refugees who
failed to escape, and hence are forced “to bear [the consequences of
environmental pollution] all by themselves.” Yet it also means that there will
be no end to the protests.

The citizens of Hong Kong cannotsolve the pollution problem in China: the
country is too vast, and some of the problems are structural. Yet, if this
massive country cannot control its pollution, the whole world will be
affected. We cannot simple sit still and watch each other die. We should seek
to understand the problem and show our support for people's environmental
protection actions. We could also make use of the official channel between
Hong Kong and Guangdong that addresses regional environmental issues. To them
we should express our concerns and request better monitoring of pollution, in
order to prevent this cancer from spreading further.

