“What do our children read?” is the question posed by Jordanian _[Batir
Wardam](http://www.jordanwatch.net/arabic/archive/2008/3/519254.html)_ (Ar),
who finds himself pleading on behalf of a girl at a bookshop who wanted to buy
a children's magazine against her nonchalant mother's wishes.

While at a bookstore, _Wardam_ tunes into a conversation a young girl was
having with her mother:

قبل فترة وبينما كنت أشتري مجموعة من المجلات في مكتبة – أعرف أن هذا غريب ولكن
لا يزال هناك بعض الناس يمارس خطيئة القراءة في الأردن – سمعت طفلة صغيرة وهي
تناشد أمها التي كانت مهتمة بتصفح مجلات الأزياء وتطلب منها شراء مجلة للأطفال.

الأم لم تكن معنية كثيرا وقالت للطفلة بأن المجلة أكبر من عمرها وهي لا تستطيع
القراءة. ولكن في الحقيقة فإن المجلة التي تطلبها الطفلة كانت مخصصة للتسالي
وحلول الألغاز التي تنمي الذكاء ولا تحتاج لمهارات قراءة عالية وبإمكان الطفلة
وهي في الصف الأول أو الثاني أن تقرأها بسهولة.

While I was at a bookshop buying a few magazines – I understand that this is
strange but there are still some people committing the mistake of reading in
Jordan – I overheard a young girl pleading with her mother, who was busy
looking at fashion magazines, and asking her to buy a children's magazine. The
mother wasn't very concerned and told her daughter that the magazine was for
older children and that she couldn't read anyway. In reality, what the girl
was asking for was a magazine with puzzles and solving riddles, which didn't
need high reading skills and which the child, who appeared to be in Grade one
or two, could have read easily.

The journalist in _Wardam_ kicked in and before long he too was pleading the
girl's case with her mother.

قررت أن اتدخل في الموقف لصالح الطفلة وتطفلت على هذا الحديث وقلت للأم بأن
المجلة سهلة لأنني اشتريها لإبنتي ويمكن لطفلتها أن تقرأها. لاحظت أن الأم شعرت
ببعض الضيق بينما كانت الطفلة سعيدة بهذا التدخل الخارجي الذي دعم وجهة نظرها ،
فقامت المرأة بإضافة مجلة الطفلة إلى سلسلة المجلات الهادفة التي قامت بشرائها
وربما كانت قد شتمتني ولم يعجبها تدخلي ولكنني كنت سعيدا بأنني ساهمت في تحقيق
هدف شرعي ومطلوب للطفلة.

لا تعرف الأم على ما يبدو الميزة التي بين يديها فطفلتها تحب القراءة وهي بحاجة
إلى تشجيع وهذه الخصائص غير موجودة في معظم الأطفال الذين يتجهون الآن إلى
التلفزيون والفيديو والكمبيوتر للتسلية والإطلاع على ما هو غير مفيد ابدا في معظم
الأحيان.

I decided to intervene on behalf of the girl and invited myself into the
conversation. I told the mother that it was an easy magazine which I buy for
my daughter and that it was possible for her daughter to read it too. I
realised that the mother seemed annoyed, while the girl was happy for this
external intervention, which backed her views. The mother then added the
magazine to the basket which carried the useful magazines she wanted to
purchase. She could have insulted me as my interference wasn't welcome, but I
was happy to be able to help the young girl achieve her legitimate right.

This mother doesn't seem to realise the characteristics of what is in her
hands – he daughter loves reading and is in need of encouragement. Not many
children have this interest and they turn their attention to television,
videos and the computer for entertainment and looking up things which are not
beneficial to them in most cases.

_Wardam_ laments the state of Arab children who hate reading and tells us how
he tried to teach his daughter how to love books from a young age:

الكثير من الأطفال الذين أعرفهم في هذه السنوات (5 – 10) غير مهتمين أبدا
بالقراءة وهذه هي سنوات تكوين الشخصية وهي السبب الرئيسي وراء عدم قدرتهم على عشق
المطالعة وأحيانا مواجهة المشاكل في الدراسة. بما أنني شخص كنت دائما معروفا
بأنني دودة كتب فقد حاولت أن أنقل لإبنتي بعضا من هذه الخصائص التي تجعلها تحب
القراءة والمطالعة. يوميا هناك جلسة قراءة لمدة نصف ساعة وهناك دائما شراء لمجلات
وقصص مصورة والتكوين التدريجي لمكتبة صغيرة في غرفتها مع تعلم احترام الكتب
وتقديرها.

ومع أنه من المستحيل تقريبا مواجهة طغيان التلفاز والفيديو والكمبيوتر فإنه من
الضروري إبقاء مكان للقراءة.

A lot of the children I know between the ages of five to 10 are not interested
in reading at all. These are the formative years in shaping their
personalities and not reading could create problems for them at school. And
because I have always been known to be a bookworm, I tried to transfer this
love of reading and learning to my daughter. I read with her for half an hour
everyday and I buy her magazines and children's books. Gradually, she will
have her own little library in her room and will learn how to respect books
and appreciate them.

Children, argues _Wardam_ , are smart in their nature and should be given due
attention to use their brain cells in beneficial and creative activities.

الأطفال اذكياء بشكل خاص وإبنتي بدأت تستغل هذه الأمور لمصلحتها فهي تظهر
اهتمامها بالقراءة في الوقت الذي يجب أن تكون فيه مهيئة للنوم ولكن لا توجد مشكلة
في تأخير نصف ساعة طالما يمكن لهذه الطقوس أن تغرس عادة القراءة منذ الصغر. وفي
الواقع فإن هناك تطورا كبيرا ومثيرا في طبيعة المطبوعات الخاصة بالأطفال وهي تقدم
معرفة ممتازة أفضل بكثير من برامج التلفاز التجارية والمسلسلات المبنية على قصص
الحزن وفقدان أفراد الأسرة بالنسبة للفتيات والضرب والصراع بالنسبة للأولاد.
وأذكر أنه في معرض عمان للكتاب قضيت وقتا في زوايا كتب الأطفال أكثر من كتب
الكبار وأعجبتني كثيرا المنشورات السورية واللبنانية بالذات والتي تتميز بطباعة
فاخرة ومعرفة مهمة.

Children are especially intelligent and my daughter now uses this in her
favour, as she demonstrates a surge of interest in reading at the time she
should be getting ready to sleep. But I have no problem in her staying up for
an extra half an hour, provided this will instil in her the habit of reading.
In reality, there is also a quantum leap in the type of publications available
for children and which provide better knowledge than the commercial television
programmes, which feed girls stories about sadness and loss of family members
and boys how to beat each other up and fight. I also remember how I spent more
time at the children’ section at the Amman Book Fair than the other sectors,
and how I was impressed with the Syrian and Lebanese publications, in
particular their quality printing and the important information they
contained.

The love of reading and education, concludes _Wardam_ , are the only means to
safeguard a child's future. He says:

المسألة إذن هي في تعويد الطفل على أهمية القراءة في جو منزلي يهتم بالمطالعة
ويحترم الكتب ولا يوجد أبدا نقص في المطبوعات الخاصة للأطفال ، وان كانت العائلات
الفقيرة تجد صعوبة في شراء الكتب الجيدة غالية الثمن فإن هذا يحتم ضرورة وجود
مكتبات ومراكز تعليمية للأطفال في المحافظات والقرى والمناطق الأقل حظا في المدن
لتسهيل حصول الأطفال في هذه المناطق على الكتب وتعلم القراءة خاصة وأن التعليم
يبقى السلاح الأساسي للطبقات الفقيرة والمتوسطة في صراعها المستمر للحصول على
حقوقها في هذا المجتمع ، والطفل الذي يحب القراءة منذ الصغر يستمر في هذه المزايا
دائما ويتمكن من إبقاء مكان للكتاب والمجلة في حياته بالرغم من غزو الإنترنت
والتلفزيون والهواتف الخلوي

The issue then is training a child to read in an environment at home which
loves learning and respects books. There isn't a shortage of good books for
children and if needy families find it difficult to purchase expensive books,
then it is imperative for governorates, villages and areas which are less
lucky than cities to have libraries and educational centres for children. This
will enable youngsters to gain access to books and learn to read, especially
when education remains the only weapon for the poor and middle classes in
their continuous struggle to get their rights in this society. A child who
loves reading from a young age, continues on their trend for life and is able
to leave space for books and magazines in his life – despite the onslaught of
the Internet, television and cell phones.

