Kuwaiti blogger _[Frankom](http://www.frankom.com/?p=2737)_ (Ar) urges his
readers to stop copying the West in everything – from reality television
shows, to movies and even when speaking to friends.

أحببت أن أحصي عدد الاشياء التي نقوم بها نحن .. هل أقول الكويتيون أم الخليجيون
أم العرب ؟ (عليكم الاختيار) التي نقوم بتقليدها أو أكتسابها من عادات أجنبية
وأكتشفت انها كثيرة كثيرة كثيرة ، هل أبدأ من البرامج التلفزيونية المقلدة ؟ أم
أبدأ بقصات الشعر الغربية ؟ أم ربما سأبدأ بالافلام المصرية (كونها هوليوود
العرب) بانتاج افلام من قصص أجنبية ؟ لا أدري فأصبحنا كجهاز سكانر أو طابعة
لاحياة لها

I wanted to count the things that we do .. do I say Kuwaitis, or Gulf
nationals or Arabs? (You are free to select here) that we copy from the West
and discovered that they are a lot. Do I start with the copied television
shows? Or the weird haircuts? Or the Egyptian movies (since that is our
version of Hollywood) which are copies of foreign movies? I don't know whether
we have become a scanner or a lifeless photocopy machine.

_Frankom_ admits to understanding English – but it isn't a language he is
ready to blog in. He says:

أواجه صعوبة كبيرة في فهم وتعلم اللغة الانجليزية لهذا لا أستخدمها كثيرا في
الكتابة أو نادرا جدا ما أستخدمها وان استخدمتها فهي منقولة من مصادر أخرى ، طلب
مني أحد الاصدقاء أن أبدأ بالكتابة باللغة الانجليزية (مهمة مستحيلة!) ولكن هذا
لا يمنع من أنني أفهم اللغة وأعرف مفرداتها وكلماتها واذا ماطلب مني أن أتحدث مع
أحدهم سأتحدث .. عشت قصة طويلة جدا وغريبة حتى تعلمت ماتعلمته الان

هذا لايعني أنني سأهجر اللغة الام وهي العربية ولن أتخلى عنها في كتاباتي … أووه
لماذا أكتب كل هذه الاسطر الفارغة ؟

I find it extremely difficult to understand and learn English and this is why
I don't use it a lot in writing. In fact, I use it rarely or link from other
sources. A friend asked me to blog in English but that will be mission
impossible! This doesn't mean that I don't understand the language and its
words and if asked to speak in English, I would. I have loved a weird and long
story to learn what I know so far. But this doesn't mean that I will abandon
my mother tongue, which is Arabic, in my writings. Why am I even writing those
empty words?

Following this introduction, Frankom comes face to face with an incident
outside a restaurant in Kuwait. He sets the scene as follows:

بعد تناول وجبة العشاء في أحد المطاعم الامريكية المطلة على شارع الخليج واذ
بخروجي من المطعم أصادف ثلاثة أشخاص يجلسون على طاولة واحدة ويتحدثون بصوت أقرب
الى العالي أحدهم (متين وعايش الدور انه يعرف انجليزي) كل ثلاث كلمات كويتية أو
عربية يقول (****) وبعدين يعيد الكلمة لحوالي أكثر من أربع الى ست مرات متتالية …
أحد الاشخاص الثلاثة يطلب من الحبيب اللي توه متعلم الكلمة ربما من أحد الافلام
أو المسلسلات أو يمكن واحد ثاني قالها له أن يسكت ويقّصر حسّه

المهم في هذا الموضوع … يا أخي انته كويتي أو عربي ماينفع تقول (كلب – حيوان –
تيس – بقرة – خرتيت – خنزير … الخ الخ ) ياخي لاتسب مو أحسن ؟؟ لازم تكون ماشي
على الموضة وتقول كلمات أعتقد أنك ماتعرف اصلا شنو معنى تلك الكلمات ؟

أعيد وأقول … قمنا بتقليد الكثير الكثير من الاشياء والله يستر من القادم

After having dinner at one of the American restaurants overlooking the Gulf
Road, I came across three people sitting on a table outside, talking to each
other loudly. One of them was fat and living the role that he understands
English. After every three Kuwaiti or Arabic words, he would say (F***) and
then repeat the word about four to six times. One of the three people asked
him (he who seems to have just picked up the word from a movie, television
show or someone else) to lower his voice.

What concerns me here is that this Kuwaiti or Arab could have substituted the
word with another derogatory word (like dog, animal, goat, cow, hippopotamus
or pig) or he could have sworn in Arabic?? Did he really have to walk in the
footsteps of fashion and use words I am sure he didn't understand their
meanings.

I repeat and say, that we are copying a lot .. and may God have mercy on us
from what is coming next.

