While volunteerism exists in every country, people's motivations for
volunteering can vary enormously. A Bahraini blogger currently studying in the
UK compares the spirit of volunteering in Bahrain and in Western countries.

_Sayed Mahmood Alaali_ starts by describing what he feels is the basic
[difference](http://ablog.smalaali.com/archives/101):

أردت منذ مدة طويلة الحديث حول مفهوم العمل التطوعي لدينا في قريتنا وربما
البحرين بشكل عام و اختلافه عن مفهوم العمل التطوعي في الدول الغربية. فيبدو أن
هنالك إختلافات جوهرية بين مفهومنا للعمل التطوعي المتربط بتقديم العمل بدون
مقابل لوجه الله سبحانه و تعالى، وبين المفهوم الغربي لتقديم العمل التطوعي
المرتبط أساساً بإعتقاد الشخص في القضية التي يخدمها.

I have wanted for a long period of time to write about the concept of
volunteering in our village and perhaps in Bahrain generally and its
difference from volunteering in the West. There seems to be a fundamental
difference between our concept of volunteering work for no return but the love
of God, and the Western concept of working on volunteer projects serving
causes people believe in.

بلا شك هنالك جوانب إيجابية في المفهومين، فمن ناحية العمل التطوعي لدينا فهو
يعتمد على تقديم الخدمة الخالصة لوجه الله سبحانه تعالى من دون انتظار أي ناتج
دنيوي، وبين المفهوم الغربي الذي يجازي أي فرد عن وقته الذي يقدمه من أجل خدمة
الهدف أو القضية التي يعمل من أجلها. و ربما ما أثارني أيضاً هو أن بعض المنظمات
اللاربحية في الدول الغربية تطلب من المتقدم للعمل التطوعي أن يدفع مبلغاً من
المال نظيراً لعمله في هذه المنظمة!

There is no doubt that there are positives in both concepts. In our case, we
believe in volunteering for the sake of God without expecting any results in
reality while in the West, people are rewarded for the time they spend
rendering a service by achieving goals which serve the cause they are working
for. What drew my attention too is that some non-profit organisations in
Western countries require those applying to volunteer their efforts to pay a
certain amount of money in return for their work in that organisation!

He asks whether aspects of this Western tradition of volunteering could be
adopted in Bahrain:

هل بإمكاننا دمج بعض المميزات الخاصة بالعمل التطوعي في مجتمعنا و منظور الدول
الغربية للعمل التطوعي؟ هذا ما سأسرده في هذه المدونة بشكل مبسط جداً إن شاء
الله.

