Saudi blogger _[Prometheus](http://prom2000.blogspot.com/2009/05/1-2.html)_
[Ar] is just back from the UK and shares his impressions from his visit and
the people he saw there in this post.

Like many Arabs who visit the UK, _Prometheus_ is surprised with the large
Arab and Asian communities in the British capital:

الزائر لبريطانيا لا بدّ وأن يلاحظ كثرة أعداد المسلمين والعرب والآسيويين هناك.
ولا أبالغ إن قلت إن من بين كلّ أربعة بريطانيين، هناك عربيّ أو آسيوي واحد.
العرب، تحديدا، يتركّزون في ضاحية بادنغتون وخصوصا في شارع ادجوير رود الذي تحسبه
حيّا من أحياء العرب. مقاهي، بقالات، مطاعم، مكتبات، متاجر.. الخ. كلّها تغصّ
بجموع العرب سواءً أكانوا مقيمين بصفة دائمة أم سيّاحا عابرين.

Visitors to Britain may notice that there are many Muslims, Arabs and Asians
there. I am not exaggerating if I say that there is an Arab or an Asian among
every four Britons. The Arabs are concentrated in
[Paddington](http://www.answers.com/Paddington), in particular on [Edgware
Road](http://www.answers.com/Edgware%20Road), which you would think is an Arab
neighbourhood. Cafes, grocery shops, restaurants, bookshops and shops, etc,
are all swarming with Arabs, whether permanent residents or tourists passing
by.

He continues his observations saying:

وقد لاحظتُ ميل العرب للنفور من بعضهم البعض. ويمكن تعميم هذه الحالة لتشمل أتباع
كلّ جنسية على حدة. ربّما كان كلّ واحد يشعر أن هموم الحياة وحدها تكفي وأن لا
حاجة لاتخاذ أصدقاء أو معارف جدد قد يشكّلون في النهاية عبئا إضافيا. حتى الشيشة
أو الارغيلة لها حضور دائم في المقاهي بالرغم من أن التدخين ممنوع في كلّ مكان
تقريبا. وكلّ من ينتهك هذا الحظر يعرّض نفسه للعقاب. فكّرتُ في أن يكون وراء
تسامح الانجليز مع تدخين الشيشة احتمال أنهم ينظرون إليها باعتبارها شأنا يتعلق
بثقافة وعادات المهاجرين أو الوافدين إليها. المكتبة العربية التي دخلتها في
ادجوير رود يمكنك أن تجد فيها كلّ ما لا يخطر على بالك من الكتب العربية الممنوعة
التي تناقش مواضيع الدين والجنس والسياسة.

I also noticed the preference of Arabs of keeping away from each other and we
can generalise this phenomenon to include each different nationality on its
own. Perhaps they are thinking that their problems in their own lives are
enough and that they don't need to make new friends and acquaintances who
would add to their woes. Even the shisha [an oriental tobacco pipe with a long
flexible tube connected to a container where the smoke is cooled by passing
through water] has its permanent presence in coffee shops there, despite the
fact that smoking is banned almost everywhere there and all those who break
this ban are subjected to punishment. I suspect that the tolerance of the
English towards shisha stems from their consideration that it is a cultural
affair and part of the customs of immigrants and visitors. The bookshop I
visited on Edgware Road had all the Arabic titles you can imagine and all
those banned books in the Arab world, which discuss religion, sex and
politics.

_Prometheus_ continues his explorations on a bus, where he overhears other
Saudis comparing between life in the UK and in their home country:

في إحدى الحافلات التي أخذتنا إلى شارع اوكسفورد سمعتُ شخصا سعوديا يقول لصاحبه:
يا أخي، عندنا لا تسمع إلا كل وصف مسيء للغربيين وللانجليز على وجه الخصوص. وقد
حذّرونا منهم كثيرا قبل أن نأتي إلى هنا وصوّروا هذه البلاد على أنها بلاد
الإجرام والكراهية. لكننا فوجئنا بعكس ما قيل. فالانجليز شعب متحضّر وراقٍ ولم
نرَ منهم والله إلا كل خير. وأنا متأكّد أنهم أكثر إنسانية منا، نحن العرب
والمسلمين، في العديد من الأمور. وبعدين ما شفنا سرقات ولا جرائم ولا شيء. إذا
كان فيه بلد آمن في هذا العالم فهو هذا البلد. البارحة تمشّيت في الشارع القريب
من الفندق حوالي منتصف الليل وكانت السماء تمطر وكل شيء كان عال العال”.  
وردّ عليه زميله وهو يضحك: يا ابن الحلال لا تسدّ نفوسنا بالحديث عن أحوالنا.
احمد ربّك على الراحة واستمتع بالحرّية اللي نشوفها هنا، على الأقلّ ارتحنا شوي
من الخطب والانكارات والفتاوى والمطويّات وقيادة المرأة والتكفير والشرك الأصغر
والأكبر والذي منه”.

On board one of the buses, heading towards [Oxford
Street](http://www.answers.com/topic/oxford-street), I heard a Saudi telling
his companion: “Among us you only hear bad descriptions of the Westerners and
the English, in particular. We have been warned a lot about them before coming
here and we pictured this country to be the epicentre of crime and hate. We
are surprised to see the opposite of what we were told. The English are a
civilised people and we have seen all good things from them. I am sure they
are more humane than us, Arabs and Muslims, in a number of aspects. We haven't
seen any robberies or crime at all. If there is a safe place in this world, it
is this country. Last night I walked on the road next to the hotel at around
midnight and it was raining and everything was fine.”  
His companion replied, while laughing: “Don't put us off by talking about our
conditions (back home). Thank Allah for the break and enjoy the freedom you
see here. At least we are taking a break from all the speeches, denials,
fatwas (religious edicts), talk about women driving, and blasphemy, etc.”

The blogger is also impressed with the open dialogue between politicians and
the media and may even be surprised that such discussions, even when heated,
are beamed on television screens:

في إحدى الليالي شاهدتُ على شاشة إحدى قنوات شبكة سكاي مناظرة ساخنة بين مذيعَين
ونائبَين في البرلمان البريطاني. كان المتحاورون يناقشون مشروع قانون ُقدّم إلى
البرلمان يقترح منح كل نائب بيتا ثانيا. وقال احد المذيعين موجّها كلامه
للنائبَين: المال العام هو مالنا. ليس مالكم ولا مال الحكومة أو رئيس الوزراء.
وأنا بوصفي مواطنا يهمّني أن أعرف أين تذهب فلوسي وفي أيّ الوجوه ُتصرف. ثم ما هي
الخدمات التي قدّمتموها لكي تستحقوا هذا النوع من الامتيازات”. وأضاف المذيع: أنا
اسأل هذه الأسئلة لأنكم ممثّلو الشعب وهو الذي انتخبكم وبإمكانه غدا أن يعزلكم
إذا تأكّد له أن كلّ همّكم هو الامتيازات والحصانات وما في حكمها”.  
وقد استمرّت المواجهة على هذه الدرجة من السخونة والصراحة حتى نهايتها. وتضمّنت
انتقادات عنيفة ولاذعة لموقف رئيس الوزراء غوردون براون من المشروع. إذ بدا انه
يحاول إمساك العصا من المنتصف وكان متردّدا بين أن يرضي النوّاب أو يغضب جمهور
الناخبين. قلت وأنا أتابع البرنامج: لهذا السبب تفوّق علينا الغربيون. ويظهر أن
أمامنا مائة عام أخرى كي نصل إلى نصف ما وصلوا إليه من الحرّيات والحقوق
والتقاليد الديمقراطية.

One night, I saw on TV, on one of the Sky channels, a heated debate between
two anchors and two British Members of Parliament. They were discussing a
draft law submitted to Parliament which proposed giving each MP another home.
One of the presenters addressed the MPs saying: “Public money is our money. It
is not your money, or the Government's money, or the Prime Minister's money.
As a citizen, I am concerned where my money goes and how it is spent. Also,
what are the services you have done which merit such incentives.” The anchor
continued: “I am asking you those questions because you are the people's
representatives. They are the ones who elected you and they are the ones who
can remove you from your posts if they realise that your only concerns are
getting more incentives and guarantees, etc.”  
The debate continued at this level of intensity and frankness until the end.
It also included sharp criticism of Prime Minister's Gordan Brown's stance
towards the draft. It seemed that he was trying to hold the stick from the
middle, hesitating between pleasing the MPs or upsetting the constituents. I
told myself as I was watching the show: “This is why the West is ahead of us.
It seems that we have another 100 years to go before we achieve half of the
freedoms, rights and democratic traditions they have.”

